Yeah, science makes mistakes, but very
importantly, it's ultimately
self-correcting because any conclusion
that turns out not to be reliable.
Somebody's going to discover that. And
the best way to make a splash as a
scientist is to disprove something that
everybody else thought was already
settled. But you better have your facts
together to succeed at that.
Well, thank you and good morning, BYU.
It's a real privilege and an honor to be
here to be your speaker this morning and
thank you for that kind introduction. Uh
Dr. Collings, I've been hearing about
some of the things going on here which
are really exciting in terms of what
this university stands up for and they
were nicely represented in that
introduction. Also hearing about the
effort to start a medical school which
will bring together medicine and faith
in ways that we need more than ever. So
exciting to see how that shapes up in
the course of the coming years. Yeah. I
thought I would talk to you today about
this issue of wisdom and about the
pieces that seem to need to play into it
for us to really be traveling on a road
that takes us where God wants us to be.
To really have not just knowledge
because knowledge is not sufficient, but
also to have understanding, to have a
moral compass, to have common sense and
experience. That really is what wisdom
calls us to. And I'll walk through some
of the ideas I have about this, but I'll
particularly at the end point out that
God has some really good ideas we can
learn from the book of Proverbs and
especially from the book of James and a
scripture that I understand is familiar
to probably everybody in this gathering.
So I will give you in the time allotted
which is going to go really fast. uh my
own journey in science, how I came to be
a Christian, which surprises some of my
colleagues, the current state of our
nation and the world, and it's not all
good, some reflections on how we got
here in our current state of
divisiveness and polarization, and some
exhortations about how to find our way
back. And I'm going to call on you
individually to be part of that solution
because I don't see it happening without
this kind of we the people response. And
then there'll be a little surprise at
the end that you will also be part of.
So my own journey in science uh began uh
in this farm that you see a picture of
in the Shannidoa Valley of Virginia. Um
I didn't really go to school till the
sixth grade cuz my parents thought they
were better teachers than the county
schools and they were probably right. Um
I learned to play guitar cuz in my
family if you didn't play an instrument
there was nothing to do after dinner cuz
we didn't have a television.
And I went on to study chemistry in uh
uh graduate school, getting a PhD in
physical chemistry before I kind of
realized that the most important
scientific example of a chemical that I
kind of ignored in my focus on chemistry
was this one. And this of course is DNA,
the amazing information molecule of all
living things. uh which for each of the
organisms that we study has the
instructions written into it that make
it possible for that organism to do all
the biological things it can do. Your
genome, which is all of your DNA, is
about three billion of these letters ACG
and T. And that apparently is sufficient
to carry you from being a single cell to
what you now are, which is an astounding
thing to be able to say.
I got trained then as a physician
because I wanted to be able to apply
this kind of life science to human
medicine and went on as a faculty member
at the University of Michigan to try to
uncover causes of genetic diseases that
in the 1980s were really hard to
understand. So hard in fact that I had
to put myself in a hay stack holding up
a needle to tell people how hard it was
to find the causes of diseases like
cystic fibrosis because they kept
asking, "Well, haven't you found it yet?
Ultimately,
some of those did start to succeed.
1989, my lab along with a group in
Toronto discovered the cause of cystic
fibrosis. A discovery which I am
overjoyed to tell you today means that
90% of people with cystic fibrosis have
the opportunity to live almost a normal
lifespan, which was never the case. When
I was initially trying to study this
disease, we studied a disease called
Huntington's disease and found the cause
of that. still not yet with the kind of
medical advance we hope for, but we'll
get there. A disease called neurop
fibromyitosis, a very common one, but
rather disfiguring, and so it doesn't
get as much attention. And more
recently, my lab has been studying the
most dramatic form of premature aging, a
disease called progeria, which you see
affecting this 15-year-old standing
between me and Cookie Monster. That's
Sam Burns, who sadly we lost a couple of
years after this, to a premature aging
condition that causes you to age about
seven times the normal rate and to die
of heart attacks or strokes by about
your mid- teens. And we now understand
the cause of that. And within a year, we
will have the first trial of invivo gene
editing to try to fix the one letter
that's misspelled in the entire genome
that causes this disorder. All very
exciting.
But I got to ask then to give up my
Michigan position and come to NIH, the
National Institutes of Health, to lead a
truly bold big science effort, which is
the human genome project, to read out
all of the letters, all of those three
billion letters, so that we'd have a
reference copy of that to be able to
understand better how it works. And it
was pretty scary at first because the
scientific community was not that
excited about this and the technology
hadn't been invented. And I was afraid I
was going to have to be the guy giving
the speech about why the whole thing
fell apart. But happily, that didn't
happen. And over the course of some 13
years, we did succeed in inventing what
needed to be done and reading out that
first copy of the human genome, which
meant you get to go to the White House
and make announcements, but particularly
you get to celebrate the accomplishments
of the 2500 scientists in six countries
and 20 research institutes that it was
my job to oversee and manage and try to
set the goals and make sure they were
achieved. And I think history will look
back on the accomplishment of sequencing
our own genome right up there in the
same place as going to the moon as a big
deal. And of course, we're trying to use
that now to understand things about
medicine. And that is moving at a
prodigious rate, but much more yet to
come because there's a lot of
information here we have to sift
through.
I um after that decided maybe I would do
something else but I got called back by
the president this in this case Obama to
come back and be the lead of the entire
NIH which meant I had to learn about
things that I didn't know a whole lot
about like neuroscience and immunology
but that was fun too and serving
surprising to me three different
presidents because usually that has not
been the case so I'm the longest serving
NIH director but had a wonderful time
there being able to identify areas of
opportunity that we were not investing
in as much as we might and pulling
together the leaders and the resources
to make that happen. Starting a new
center to make sure that basic science
discoveries get turned into clinical
advances. That's what ENCATs is.
Starting a whole initiative on the human
brain which is now 11 years along and is
making remarkable insights into how
those circuits those 86 billion neurons
between your ears do what they do. And
that's going to have profound
implications for diseases like
schizophrenia and autism and Alzheimer's
disease. And we started a bold program
to try to figure out how genetics and
environment and health behaviors
actually interact in terms of whether
people fall ill or not. And we've
enrolled 880,000
Americans in this program called All of
Us who are our partners in this. And
they share their medical records and
they get their genomes all sequenced.
And the insights are coming now very
quickly about things that we could
really use to practice better prevention
instead of waiting for people to get
sick.
And we've seen the advances in genetics
go from diagnostics to therapeutics in
remarkable ways. Cickle cell anemia, the
first molecular disease, is now curable
with gene therapy, which I did not know
would happen in my lifetime. And there
it is and many more to come.
Then I had an opportunity to spend a
year in the White House uh starting a
program to try to eliminate a disease
that is killing 15,000 Americans every
year, hepatitis C. And we're on the path
to a program to do just that. That's not
just going to save all those lives,
although that ought to be good enough.
It's also going to save our country
billions of dollars because we'll
prevent all kinds of terrible
consequences of hepatitis C which is now
a curable disease. So all of that was
things that I was able to do in this uh
course of time. But now what about the
history of my own faith journey? How did
that all fit together? Let me quickly
walk you through that. I was not a
Christian. I was not a person of faith.
I was an atheist when I was a graduate
student studying physical chemistry. And
then I went to medical school and I
maintained my atheism uh for the first
year or two avoiding those Christian
medical students who wanted to have
lunch because I knew they had a come
some kind of program and I didn't want
to be part of it.
But then it was me sitting at the
bedside of good honorable North Carolina
people who were facing the end of their
lives and I realized I wouldn't know how
to handle that. And many of them seem to
have faith as their strongest anchor.
Maybe not our medicine but their faith.
And I had to understand something more
about that. And one day, sitting at the
bedside of a patient of mine, who I
confess I'd gotten fairly attached to
because she reminded me of my
grandmother, she shared her faith with
me in a very personal, compelling way.
And I listened awkwardly and then she
turned to me and she asked me this
question. What do you believe, doctor?
Four words. What do you believe? I think
most of you in this room know the answer
to that, but a lot of people don't. I
didn't. And I realized I've just been
asked the most important question that
anybody ever has to consider. And I've
spent almost no time trying to
understand how people arrive at answers
and what might be true here. I ran out
of the room. I basically said, "I don't
know." And she gave me this funny look
like, "What? You don't know? You haven't
thought about this?" And that started me
on a journey which carried me through
the next two years trying to understand
how believers have come to that
conclusion that traveled through the
books of CS Lewis which was an enormous
help to me as a fellow traveler who had
gone through some of the same arguments
and ultimately came around to being
convinced that the rational choice is to
believe in God. And eventually that also
became my choice. But only after I
realized that the only way I could
really approach God, the holy God of the
universe, required some way that my
sinfulness, my imperfections could
somehow be overlooked. And the person of
Jesus Christ emerged as a solution to my
problem. I had always thought Christ was
just a myth. I didn't realize the
historical evidence for Christ was so
compelling. And so on a f a fall
afternoon in the Cascade Mountains on a
beautiful hike, I could no longer resist
the conclusion that it was time to give
in to my resistance. And I fell on my
knees and I gave my life to Jesus
Christ. Age 27.
And to the skeptics who I was surrounded
by who then said, "How could you
possibly do this?" I had by that time
also learned that there are pointers to
God from science, from nature that are
pretty hard to ignore that I had ignored
until I started this journey. There's
something instead of nothing. Science
doesn't help you answer that question.
The unreasonable effectiveness of
mathematics. This is Vner's term. Why is
it that mathematics works to describe
the behavior of matter and energy?
There's no reason that should be. Why
are Maxwell equations so beautiful? And
they are. What's that about? There's a
mind behind this. And not only that, it
had a beginning, the big bang. And we
don't know how to explain how nature
just came out of nowhere. Nature isn't
supposed to know how to do that. That
seems to require a supernatural
influence. Oh, supernatural. That sounds
like God. And then there's this whole
business of the fine-tuning. If there
are people in this room who don't know
this argument, this is worth looking
into. Those constants that determine
gravity and nuclear um uh forces, you
don't know from first principles what
the value of those constants should be.
You have to measure them. If they were
off by just a tiny bit, none of this
would work. We might have particles
flying around, but there wouldn't ever
be any coallescence into anything
interesting. The fine-tuning of uh the
way in which these have made it possible
for us to be here is breathtaking
as so many zeros in the uh probability
statement. And yet, how do you explain
that? You either have to say there's
multitude of other universes out there
that have different values of this and
we're just in the lucky one or you got
to say somebody's behind this, some
person, some mind. And I think that's
the more compelling of the options. So
faith and reason in this case kind of
coming together. And then there's the
moral law. Why is it that all humans
populations have this sense that there's
something good and there's something
evil and we're called to be good even
sometimes when it asks us to sacrifice
in ways that are a scandal to evolution.
I can't explain that without seeing it
as a signpost to something outside of
what we can measure. And another
signpost which I'm particularly fond of
and maybe more aware of as life goes on
is beauty. Why are we so attracted to
the beautiful? Why does it lift us
outside of our daily sometimes in ways
that are achingly poignantly sweet?
Here's an example of the kind of beauty
that I get to work with every day as a
scientist because scientists love the
opportunity for beauty. That's DNA on
the right but not the way you usually
look at it. It's looking down the long
axis and my gosh, it sure looks like a
rose window in some beautiful cathedral.
And there all those images that happen
every day. God seems to care about
beauty. And is maybe beauty a way of
breaking through all of our resistance
and all of our focus on things that
don't really matter. I think maybe so.
So I wrote about all this in terms of my
own transformation from an atheist to a
follower of Jesus in a book called the
language of God which was nicely
mentioned in the introduction. I'm happy
to say earlier a few months ago had the
experience of interacting with a class
here at BYU uh organized by David Jarvis
who studies and teaches about genomics
and the class members apparently all
read the language of God and to my
pleasure they apparently liked it and we
had a nice interaction about that. So
thank you professor Jarvis for getting
this uh started and maybe I'll meet some
of those students in the course of
today.
Well, those are some of my own
background as a person of faith, a
person of science. But now, what about
now? What about the status of our world
right now? How are we doing here? I'm
afraid I am deeply troubled when I look
at this current state of what supposed
to be uh the most technologically
advanced, committed to progress uh
caring nation in the world. How are we
doing? Well, we have over the course of
not just a few years, but actually a few
decades gradually slipped more and more
into a state uh where divisiveness
seeps into almost every topic and we're
polarized and we're focused on
grievances and we're often looking for
reasons to be fearful or angry. And it
has created in our country I think a
deeply unfortunate circumstance that is
getting in the way of what all of us
want to do which is to flourish with all
the blessings we have around us which
are phenomenal in this country which has
been the leader in the world in so many
ways but which is now seriously in a
struggling circumstance that some of our
international neighbors are really
troubled by and I'm troubled by and I
suspect you are too. So what's happened
to us as a society? There's a group
called more in common which studies this
kind of question about societal
structures and they have done very
careful surveys of Americans and they
conclude that actually there are the
folks out there on what they call the
wings on the right and the left and they
get a lot of the attention but most
Americans are not there. We're in the
exhausted majority and we are exhausted.
all the animosity, all the vitriol, all
the noise, all the things coming at you
every minute, whether it's from social
media or cable news or whatever, it's
just hard not to feel embattled and feel
like, okay, I'm just going to check out.
We can't do that. We have to come back
ourselves and figure out how to be part
of the solution. Because part of our
reaction here, if we're buying into the
messages that we're hearing, is that you
have to take sides and you have to
assume that somebody on the other side
is not just misguided. They're actually
dangerous. They might even be evil. And
for our issue to be resolved the way you
want it, not only do you have to win,
that other side has to lose. Kind of
like these dogs in the bar saying, "It's
not enough that we succeed. Cats must
also fail."
We can laugh about it, but you see that
kind of consequence now, especially in
our political discussions, uh, taking
much more traction than it should. And
the consequences of this are not just
unfortunate
disagreements or fraying of
relationships. It's life and death. And
that was never more clear than with SARS
KV2.
settled science about the vaccine
developed for COVID 19.
More than one million Americans died
from COVID 19. Most of them before the
vaccine was available. vaccines were
developed and I was in the middle of
this for the year 2020 which was the
year with no sleep developing in 11
months a vaccine that was 95% effective
against the original Wuhan virus which
is I would think will stand as one of
science's greatest achievements of all
time.
the trials done on that vaccine uh
involving 30,000 volunteers. God bless
them for being willing to do so, not
knowing if they were getting the vaccine
or a dummy shot. And then we watched
them for three or four months to see who
got co COVID and who didn't. Serious
side effects very rare and 92 to 95%
effective in preventing serious disease.
Now side effects to be clear there is a
side effect of this vaccine based on
mRNA which is about one in 10,000 young
males can develop this inflammation of
the heart which fortunately is virtually
always reversible but sounds scary but
is a very rare event.
3.1 million lives were saved uh by the
vaccines in the US. I'm sure some of you
in this room might have been them. I
might have been one too. It's hard to
know who that person saved was, but that
is the way in which you can do the math
and that's about the right answer. And
internationally, somewhere between 14
and 20 million people are alive today
because of those vaccines.
That's the facts though. That's without
any political spin. But 50 million
Americans said no thank you. And 230,000
of them died unnecessarily because the
distrust
which was fueled by misinformation and
disinformation especially on social
media and often times by people who were
making a buck uh by shedding uh
spreading information that was
demonstrably false and yet somehow we
fell into it. And politics I'm sorry to
say played into that in ways that made
things worse. So our culture wars in
this case killed a lot of people. Those
gravestones
that is because somehow we lost our way
and being able to tell the difference
between an opinion and a fact and
deciding who to trust.
So that's part about why I wrote this
book called the road to wisdom which is
also the topic of today's presentation.
How do we get here?
I would argue that they're traditional
anchors to our society and they seem to
have been lost. Maybe not at BYU, but
they are in many other places. Let's
consider four of those. Truth. Do you
believe in objective truth? I sure hope
so. But there are 3,000 people who
belong to the flat earth society,
and apparently they're unswwayed uh by
objective truth. And that's just a silly
example of what is an increasingly
widespread ability for people to say,
"Well, that might be true for you, but
it's not true for me." Well, that's fine
if you're talking about opinion about a
movie, but if it's whether the Earth
goes around the sun or the other way
around, sorry, your opinion doesn't
matter.
So, think about truth in this regard.
There are things that are objective,
necessary truth. A lot of that's
mathematics. And they're firmly
established facts like this earth going
around uh uh the sun that we should not
decide we don't like uh someday. They
have they are basically placed upon uh a
rigorous set of established information
evidence and if you're going to
encounter one of those and say I don't
agree with it you better have a really
good reason. And then there's the zone
of uncertainty where it's a great place
for science to work and try to sort
things out. And then there's opinion.
All too often we get in one of these
discussions and we forgot which circle
we're in. And that's going to be really
important if we're going to be able to
bring ourselves back on track here to
putting value on objective truth. One of
the ways we get things into that zone of
firmly established facts is science.
It's what I've given much of my life to.
That's a picture of the people in my
former lab at NIH who spend every day
trying to uncover things scientifically.
basically glimpsing God's mind and
getting a sense of how nature is put
together. And science does these things
by a rigorous set of approaches that I
know are studied here at BYU. And yeah,
science makes mistakes. But very
importantly, it's ultimately
self-correcting because any conclusion
that turns out not to be reliable,
somebody's going to discover that. And
the best way to make a splash as a
scientist is to disprove something that
everybody else thought was already
settled. But you better have your facts
together to succeed at that. But science
has fallen into the same distrustful
space as many other sources of
information. And even for somebody say,
well, the science says this, you'll get
a lot of eyebrows raised in certain
rooms at that point. So we have a
problem with distrust in science. But
what's another source here that we might
have lost an anchor?
Oh, sorry. Before I get to that, the the
distrust in science has also spilled out
in ways that I'm really troubled about,
which is resulting in undercutting the
support of science, including of medical
research. I'm glad BYU is going to start
a medical school. I hope you have
fantastic medical research capabilities.
But if you look and see what's happening
at medical research right now, in many
American universities, it's under siege
because of serious cuts in staff and
budgets and personnel that have happened
in the course of the last year. despite
the American success story for medical
research which has been the envy of the
world uh for decades but now there's
real trouble. One thing I'm trying to do
and I hope it will have some impact is
to try to help everyday Americans who
aren't working in medical research and
don't live at a university town to
understand why this is something they
might want to care about. And this is an
effort called we are living proof. It's
a story bank of hundreds of stories of
patients whose lives have been saved or
greatly benefited by medical research
funded by the taxpayers. And we're
willing to tell that story, encouraging
people to believe this is a really good
thing that America does and not
something that you'd want to push off to
the side at a time where everything
seems to be suspicious in terms of
trusting.
But now, let me come to faith. I'm in a
room where you are people of faith as I
am.
Faith, as I mentioned, has a remarkable
role to play here in terms of answering
questions that science can't help with.
Faith and reason are handinhand ways
that we find answers. and fans. They
should also be an anchor in a storm like
this one because we we have the guidance
from the Bible, from the words of Jesus,
from the Old and the New Testaments
about how we are to handle things when
they aren't going well. Psalm 46 sits on
my wall. God is my refuge and strength
and everpresent help in trouble. Okay,
our country is in trouble. Faith should
be helping us here. Christians should be
in the best position to advocate against
divisiveness, animosity, vitriol,
grievances, and for love and grace and
truth. That's not really what we're
seeing in a lot of American Christianity
right now. I'm an evangelical Christian.
Sometimes my heart breaks to see the
messages that are being attached uh to
people that I share faith with. And the
Christian calling doesn't say that.
Christian calling says love your
neighbor as yourself and love your
enemies which must have been the most
radical thing uh when Jesus spoke that
in the sermon on the mount. Pray for
those who persecute you and depend on
truth. The truth will set you free.
Those are all very clear callings. How
are we doing? And there's a warning too.
Proverbs chapter 6. There are six things
the Lord hates.
Seven that are detestable to him. Hotty
eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed
innocent blood, a heart that devises
wicked schemes, feet that are quick to
rush into evil, a false witness who
pours out lies, and a person who stirs
up conflict in the community.
Sobering. And yet, I think it's not just
the secular community that's doing some
of these things. It's also the faith
community in some instances that have
fallen into this out of fear or anger or
something that's causing people to lose
their connection to what Jesus calls us
to. And again, I read the sermon on the
mount, Matthew 5:6, and 7 every week.
And I would recommend all of you doing
that if you're looking for the really
most cogent guidance as to who we are
supposed to be, especially at a time of
trial. You won't find a better source.
And then there's trust. And trust is
steadily eroding in our country in
virtually everything. Some of that's
maybe trust losses that are justified by
behavior of institutions. Some of it
though is just manufactured or some of
it is just overall cynicism.
If we don't have institutions that we
can trust, then we have anarchy. And yet
our temptation seems to be with any
institution to begin to take it down.
And you can see the shift leftward here
of everything except the military over
the course of the last 50 years.
And then there's trust. I ask you, how
do you decide whether to trust a source
or an institution that's giving you
information? Think about it. I would bet
you have certain criteria. I think
basically most of us have four of these.
Is it a source that has integrity? Are
they honest? Are they competent? Do they
know what they're talking about? Have
they done the work in an area that may
be kind of complicated?
Are they humble? Are they willing to
say, "I'm an expert on this, but not on
that."
But then there's this fourth one that I
think used to be sort of an equal
contributor. Like, does that source
align with my values? But now aligned
values has become the dominant force. If
that institution or that individual is
in my bubble, my tribe, then I'm going
to accept what they say. I'm not even
going to be that skeptical. Whereas, if
they're in that other tribe, I don't
care what they say. It's probably wrong.
Don't tell me you're not doing that
because I know I'm doing it, too. And
that means we're losing the more
reliable areas that we wish we could
spend more time on, which is integrity,
competence, and humility.
So, how to find our way back from this
quandery? I don't think our politicians
can be relied on uh to do it, although
some of them are trying.
It's up to us, we the people. So, very
quickly, re-anchor
to those biblical principles. If you've
been seduced by political versions of
that that really are quite different,
reconsider whether that worldview needs
a bit of work,
do everything you can with your
intellectual radar to distinguish facts
from fakes. And there's a lot of fakes.
And don't be afraid to reach out to
people who disagree with you. In fact,
we need to do a lot more of that. More
listening and less shouting. There's an
organization I'm part of called Braver
Angels as that does this. Uh you see me
on the right there talking to a trucker
from Minnesota who was just furious
about what happened with COVID in terms
of public health. Have that conversation
in a case in front of hundreds of people
and listen to each other and you learn
stuff. By the way, your governor Spencer
Cox has been a big part of Braver Angels
and getting that more into the political
environment and that's been wonderful to
see.
And then seek out community
opportunities for dialogue. Maybe this
is one right now. But in churches,
churches should be a place of healing,
not a place of animosity. And so many
pastors would tell you they're just on
absolute walking around on on eggshells
afraid to bring up some of these topics
because it will create such animosity.
Well, it's happened to us. And then
demand more than maybe we're seeing
right now in terms of character, vision,
and positive action from national
leaders. And now maybe here's the one
for you. Consider signing a pledge if
you got your camera and you're allowed
to use it in here. I don't know if you
are. Uh, grab that QR code and let me
ask each one of you if you would be
willing to do this. Go to the website
there, which is Braver Angel's website,
and you will see there a pledge asking
you, are you willing to agree to this
for yourself, for your own behaviors and
your actions, and you can see here a a
very brief version of what is in uh that
particular pledge. And I would encourage
you to have a look and think about
whether this is something you want to
make a priority and not expect everybody
else uh to solve this.
And finally, how then does one get
wisdom? Well, I'm on this road, too, so
it's rather bold of me to imagine that I
could tell you how to find your way up
the road. Half the time I think I'm on
the ditch or up against the guardrails.
Here's where you can really find it. And
these verses, in this case decorated by
my daughter as part of a birthday
present to me a few years ago, James 15,
you know this, but if any of you lacks
wisdom, let him ask of God who gives to
all men generously and without reproach,
and it will be given him. And then
secondly, how do you know wisdom when
you see it? Because there's some
fabricated versions out there. It's
pure, peaceable, gentle, reasonable,
full of mercy and good fruits,
unwavering without hypocrisy. My prayer
for myself and for all of you is that we
remember that and we search by the means
we've been given to find that kind of
wisdom and then apply it to make our
world better because the world needs us
more than ever right now.
And then there's a little surprise at
the end. So, I'm going to surprise you
by asking you to join me in a closing
hymn. I know you can sing. I heard you
at the beginning of this. Um, and in
this instance, I'm even going to ask you
to stand up and I'm going to walk over
there to stage left and you will see
suddenly a bit of an instrument is
appearing. Don't go away.
Are you with me?
>> So, thank you for standing up and not
running away. I know you got class. This
won't take long. Uh, basically, I want
to teach you a song which is a tune that
you will know very well and you would
normally sing uh to the words about
humility. Well, we're going to sing that
tune, but with different words that are
about faith and reason and how they fit
together, which has been my whole theme.
So, those words will be projected and
you'll be able to see them. And I hope
you'll join in lustily with harmony as
necessary. And these are words uh from a
pastor in Colorado, the Reverend Thomas
Troer.
Praise the source of faith and learning
that has sparked and stoked the mind
with a passion
for discerning
how the world has been designed.
Let the sense of wonder
flowing
from the wonderers
we survey.
Keep our faith forever
growing
and renew
our need to pray.
God of wisdom.
We acknowledge
that our signs
and our heart
and the breath of human
know
only partial
truth in
far beyond
our calculation.
ation lies a death. We cannot
found
where your purpose
for creation
and the halls of life are found
as to
why each All of
till my mering
lady
one call here
steady
bless
and burning
till they fall a single Of course,
till they jo.
Amen. Thank you,